# Training tips

## Image Augmentation

 With version >= 4.3.0 you also have access to image augmentations for training. Image augmentation is a technique where data, in this case images, is changed (augmented) to create variation in the data. The purpose is two-fold. First it can help extend your data when you don't have a lot of data. Second it can create a model that is more resilient to variations in the data at inference time. In our case, we want to handle various lighting conditions. Currently supported are AUGMENTATIONS = ['MULTIPLY', 'BLUR'] in the settings which generate brightness modifications and apply a Gaussian blur. These can be used individually or together. Augmentations are only applied during training; they are not applied when driving on autopilot.

## Image Transformation
 With version >= 4.3.0 you also have access to image transformations like cropping or trapezoidal masking. Cropping and masking are similar; both 'erase' pixels on the image. This is done to remove pixels that are not important and that may add unwanted detail that can make the model perform poorly under conditions where that unwanted detail is different. Cropping can erase pixels on the top, bottom, left and/or right of the image. Trapezoidal masking is a little more flexible in that it can mask pixels using a trapezoidal mask that can account for perspective in the image. To crop the image or apply a trapezoidal mask you can provide TRANSFORMATIONS = ['CROP'] or TRANSFORMATIONS = ['TRAPEZE']. Generally you will use either cropping or trapezoidal masking but not both. Transformations must be applied in the same way in training and when driving on autopilot; make sure the transformation configuration is the same on your training machine and on your Donkey Car.
